SHINPEI: I finally found her.
What did she do at the summer festival?
No, what is she going to do?
If I can find out, I can stop her.
Let me explain, Hiruko copied Heine
and now she appears in her form.
And now, she prefers
to be called by that name.
TOKIKO: She's the goddess of Hitogashima.
Hiruko-no-Mikoto, mother of shadows.
You're telling me
this little kid is a goddess?
TOKIKO: Lately, her legs have gone weak,
because she's undernourished,
so she needed another body right away.
-(gasps)
-(static)
How many times
have you and I met like this...
Shinpei Ajiro?
(whimpers)
(gasps)
SHINPEI: So you didn't die.
You...
So it was you!
SHINPEI: You killed Ushio.
You killed Mio.
You're the monster
who destroyed this place.
You were the god of this entire island?
You were always there,
hiding in plain sight.
You were right in front of me!
Weren't you!?
(grunts)
Shinpei, get back!
(Shinpei grunts)
(theme music)
-(wailing)
-No, wait, Heine!
HEINE: His voice was so loud,
it's echoing in my head.
It's driving me absolutely crazy.
I almost killed you by accident.
(Shinpei grunts)
HEINE: I prefer to have
all my meals in silence.
Don't ever speak to me like that again.
Tokiko.
SOU: Uh...
(Sou gasps)
-Ms. Negoro?
-SHINPEI: Huh?
She's a nurse at our clinic.
TOKIKO: Every year on Hitogashima,
roughly four people are killed.
-Illnesses or accidents.
-(gasps)
That's right, you heard me correctly.
And we've been giving
all of those dead bodies to her
from the very beginning.
-TOKIKO: My father.
-(gasps)
My grandpa, great grandpa,
and his father, it goes back far.
What's with the coffins?
Don't tell me you feed people to her!
SOU: Do you?
(giggles)
I've been waiting for this.
A nice big, delicious feast.
SHADOW NEGORO:
Tomorrow will be even bigger.
(Heine giggling)
(both gasp)
TOKIKO: I know I said
you could only kill shadows, not humans.
But now I'm fully prepared to die
by your hands, Shinpei.
Hold on. What are you...
Tokiko, You can't...
(static)
(zaps)
(panting)
(heartbeat)
(zaps)
(gasps)
(ominous music)
HEINE: Come take a look
for yourself, Ushioh.
You may recognize this,
it's your original body,
I missed out on eating it!
(gasps)
Oh, no! Ushio!
SHINPEI: Is it really Ushio in there?
Didn't we just cremate her body?
We picked up her bones!
TOKIKO: Dad switched out
the body in the coffin.
Heine copied those bones
from another person.
But why?
Why go that far with it?
Why take care of her like that? Why?
Tokiko, you knew everything?
You knew Shiori was being targeted?
SHINPEI: You knew that Ushio got killed?
TOKIKO: I didn't know anything
about Ushio's death.
I had no idea that she and her shadow
were working together to save Shiori.
She died because she stuck her nose
in other peoples' business.
(both gasp)
What'd you say?
TOKIKO: All of this was for Heine.
Shut the hell up!
I can't let you get away with this!
Where is the old man?
Shut up, you idiot!
You don't know what you're talking about!
The only reason I got stuck with all this,
is because of you, you moron!
(gasps)
(coughing)
(breathing heavily)
TOKIKO: I didn't have a choice, okay?
I really didn't.
If I let Heine die,
then our mother will die, too.
-Wait, what?
-(gasps)
TOKIKO: Yes, Mom is alive right now,
but not because she suddenly got better.
Dad kept begging Heine
to turn her into a shadow,
he wanted to keep her alive!
SOU: Huh?
What... What...
What do you...
I... I don't get it.
Mom is what...
TOKIKO: Haven't you and Shinpei been
treating Ushio's shadow
like it's the real Ushio this entire time?
(both gasp)
Tokiko.
(zaps)
(static)
(slurps)
Mmm!
(Shinpei gasps)
SHINPEI: No. Whatever happens,
I can't let her eat Ushio.
She'll disappear forever!
Shadows always freeze for at least
a few seconds during a scan.
It's the same for Heine.
-(zaps)
-SHINPEI: Ushioh, now!
Go on, print!
(gasps)
I was waiting for you to say that!
Here, take this!
(rattling)
(wailing)
(rumbles)
Ushioh!
(grunts)
-SHADOW NEGORO: Are you hurt?
-No fair! No fair!
That was supposed to be
my dinner and they took it!
Thank you, Ushioh. Are you okay?
SHINPEI: I think it's almost time.
Now, I should...
-TOKIKO: Do what?
-(Shinpei gasps)
Why try to fight shadows?
Are you that stupid?
They'll kill you, Shinpei.
You'll never win. There's no way.
The Tokiko that I remember
would never willingly do this to us.
(gasps)
USHIOH: It's just using you, Tokiko,
taking advantage of your weakness.
It's deceiving you,
playing with your emotions,
while it tries to feed its hunger.
And you're just
gonna sit there and take it?
I won't let you do that!
I'm not gonna let anyone mess with you,
you're my sister's best friend.
I don't know if you're a god, Hiruko,
or whatever you are,
don't underestimate humans!
Ushioh, I...
I'm so bored.
(groaning)
-What the...
-(yelling)
SHINPEI: So she doesn't need
to copy humans anymore?
(static)
I want to devour all of Ushio's memories.
-(snarls)
-HEINE: Just leave him for dead.
(grunts)
SHINPEI: I think the best option now is
for Ushioh to break my neck,
kill me so that I can loop back.
That was my plan from the start.
I need to keep Ushioh out of harm's way.
No matter what.
(yelling)
-(groans)
-SHINPEI: So I...
(rumbles)
I need to stop Ushioh,
but I can't bring myself to do it.
And I know why.
-(growling)
-Because Ushioh and I...
Gotcha.
...feel exactly the same way right now!
Don't underestimate humans!
(gasps)
(suspenseful music)
If I'm gonna die anyway,
I'll die fighting.
(zaps)
(Shinpei gasps)
(squelching)
Shin...
FOUR-ARM: You can stop now, Heine.
-That's quite enough.
-(gasps)
(Ushioh gasps)
(groaning)
(whimpers)
(Shinpei groaning)
You just tried to eat Shinpei, didn't you?
Yeah, but its not fair!
I was so hungry and they took my food!
FOUR-ARM: That doesn't matter.
Whoa!
(whining)
SHINPEI: Wait, but...
Why her?
(Four-Arm snickers)
FOUR-ARM: Don't you worry, Heine.
I know they took your meal,
but I'll get Ushio Kofune's body back.
Look here, you can't eat this one.
She's a very important captive.
BOTH: Mio!
Uh...
Shut up.
I already knew that, okay?
(panting)
FOUR-ARM: No need to worry.
Mio is very much alive.
However, if you take even one more step,
I'll have to crush
her delicate little head like a melon.
TOKIKO: Hey. What is this?
You told me you wouldn't touch Mio!
You lied to me!
FOUR-ARM: Don't get so upset, Tokiko.
Remember, everyone
will die tomorrow, anyway.
What are you talking about?
Tomorrow, the last meal
at the summer festival
is going to heal Heine's body,
and then Mom'll finally come back.
TOKIKO: Everything'll go back to normal,
just how Dad thought it would happen.
(Tokiko sobs)
Tell me I'm right!
FOUR-ARM: We certainly appreciate
the Hishigatas' support.
However, that will end soon.
You betrayed us.
(sobs)
-What're you gonna do to us?
-Tokiko!
(gunshot)
Wow.
(gasps)
No, my... brother.
Your father is well aware
of all of this, believe me.
(Tokiko exhales sharply)
(gunshot)
(Hizuru breathing sharply)
(groaning)
No, I... I... can't stay conscious.
(groans)
Sis, I...
(gasps)
Hey, are you okay, miss?
Oh, you're all bloody.
HIZURU: Totsumura.
Thank goodness.
He's... human.
I'm not... gonna make it.
Sorry. Sorry, Sis.
(groaning)
Ryunosuke.
Hey, I know you!
You're the lady from Ushio's funeral,
with the H cups.
G cups, dumbass!
(breaths heavily, groans)
Where's Mio Kofune?
(gasping)
I know she was with you.
A... monster took her, I swear.
TETSU: These monster babies,
came outta nowhere.
Hold on, where is your gun?
TETSU: I lost it somewhere.
-(grunts in pain)
-I took it out and...
and then I shot at them.
(sighs)
I fell, then I ran.
I don't remember
what happened after that, okay?
(panting)
Running was the right decision.
Huh?
Look, I need your help, all right?
I don't think I can walk at all.
I just need you to...
I need you to carry me.
Ah... Of course!
I'll take you to a hospital!
No, not there.
You're going to take me
to the deepest part of this cave.
(gunshot)
SHINPEI: It can't be.
This can't...
this can't really be happening.
Ushioh. Get over here right now.
And do it slowly, please.
I'll never... forgive you!
That's of no concern to us.
Do you want Mio to die?
(squeaks)
FOUR-ARM: Come here.
(grunts)
SHINPEI: Stop... Stop, don't.
Don't you dare touch her!
If you want to eat humans,
then why don't you eat me?
(squishing)
Well, there's no point dying in style.
We never saw eye to eye.
-(squishes)
-(gasps)
(gasps)
(groaning)
HEINE: Huh, looks like
you're not such a dud, after all.
You certainly wouldn't
have beaten Negoro if you were.
-You're not broken or defective at all.
-(Ushioh sobs)
HEINE: If anything,
I'd say you've evolved.
(Ushioh whimpers)
HEINE: It'd be such a huge waste
to erase you.
Instead, I'll fix your brain,
so I can use you.
I'm going to need a lot of help tomorrow.
(grunting)
No...
Shinpei!
-Please don't do this!
-Hm?
HEINE: I guess I'll never be able
to erase his power.
Ever wonder which came first?
-(panting)
-The chicken or the egg?
What difference does it make?
It's all a loop.
No fair!
Your right eye has a unique power,
it can pull back and observe the flow
of time from a higher dimension.
FOUR-ARM: It watches and presides
over multiple parallel worlds.
(grunts)
Do you know what this means?
You can take
these alternate worlds you observe
and you can make them real.
Don't you understand that you're
rendering this world as we speak?
You truly have the power
of a god, Shinpei.
Shame that you don't have the skill
to use it as you should.
(grunts)
FOUR-ARM: You can't activate
this extraordinary ability
unless you die and lose self-awareness.
Do you know what that means?
It means all we have to do
is find a way to keep you alive.
It really couldn't be simpler.
(squishes)
(gasps)
(whimpers)
(body thuds)
SHADOW: Shinpei, all we have to do now
is keep you here,
-suffocating in your own despair...
-(panting)
...until tomorrow ends.
(quivering breath)
Mio...
SHINPEI: It's hopeless.
If I can't loop back,
I can't change anything in the past.
(sobs)
I'm breaking my promise again.
I can't protect anyone.
SHINPEI: I'm sorry, Mio.
I'm sorry, Ushio.
(water splashes)
(panting)
Ahh! Whoa!
-I'm not interrupting anything, am I?
-Totsumu...
SHINPEI: Ms. Nagumo!
HIZURU: That was my last shot!
(Shinpei gasps)
-(gasps, yelps)
-(body thuds)
FOUR-ARM: That was close, that was close!
I almost let her kill you, Shinpei,
and we can't have that, can we?
Totsumura...
(groans)
Ms. Nagumo...
FOUR-ARM:
Now that we've dealt with the intruders,
nothing can get in our way.
SHINPEI: Thank you. I appreciate it.
What?
(retches)
MERCURY (II) CHLORIDE
I got a chance to...
(coughs)
...drink the whole thing.
Huh? You...
(sobs)
Shinpei.
All right, guys, listen.
-Hm?
-Huh?
SHINPEI: This is important.
If one of us dies or gets hurt
and it looks like we won't make it,
I'll loop back right away, okay?
-USHIOH: Huh?
-(Sou gasps)
Uh, are you saying
you're going to kill yourself?
How will you...
SHINPEI: I'll use this, it'll be easy.
SOU: You... brought... the bottle
of mercuric chloride.
How much of this would be fatal?
SOU: Even a single drop
would do the trick.
SHINPEI: Then drinking the whole bottle
will do it for sure.
(grunts)
Yeah, but you'll suffer.
SHINPEI: Yeah. Let's hope
it doesn't come to that.
POISON
MERCURY (II) CHLORIDE
(retching)
(coughs)
Is this poison?
You must be used to dying.
Don't tell me you've been here
that many times before, Shinpei?
(retching)
(gasps)
I don't have to come back much
to deal with you.
Wow, I didn't think
you'd have the guts for this.
Listen.
(grunts)
I'll redo this many, many times,
you hear me?
(breathing heavily)
And in the end, I'll...
(grunts)
...I'll defeat you.
(groaning)
Count on it!
HEINE: Hey!
FOUR-ARM: I'm afraid
there's nothing I can do now.
I'm sorry about this, Heine.
-Forget about him for a second.
-Hmm?
HEINE: There. Look at her.
(grunts)
HEINE: It looks like she's been repairing
all the damage I did to her.
Shinpei is risking his life for us,
I'm not going down without...
a fight!
I... I can't... believe
she's actually hurting me somehow!
(grunts)
HEINE: No, it can't be.
You're the egg, aren't you?
Just kill her!
Don't worry about me!
(gasps)
She's gone?
HEINE: That bastard...
That bastard took her with him.
(ominous music)
-Ushioh!
-Shinpei!
You'll be okay.
I won't let go!
I'm sorry, Shinpei.
It's all my fault.
Everyone, even Mio...
-No!
-(gasps)
Don't look back, okay, Ushioh?
Focus on the present.
-(Ushioh gasps softly)
-SHINPEI: We'll beat them.
Even if... Even if it costs me my life.
USHIOH: I'll go.
As many times as you want me to.
I'll be with you, Shinpei.
So in other words, you're a time traveler.
(gasps)
-SHINPEI: Yes.
-Really?
(static)
Mm?
Huh?
Yeah.
We just returned from the future.
(closing theme music)